Hey there.
So now we understand how larger products and companies start, grow, and then eventually mature and decline.
Let's talk about products themselves on a smaller scale.
Every product that is being developed has a series of steps that they go through.
We call this the product development process.
Sometimes you'll hear it be called the product development process lifecycle or product development lifecycle
but it's the process that products go through when they're being developed.
So there are seven main phases to this product development process.
They are conceive, plan, develop, iterate, launch, then steady state, and then finally we either maintain or kill the product.
We're going to talk about the first four in this lecture and we'll talk about the rest in the next lecture.
So the first phase conceive this is the phase where we collect user problems we brainstorm solutions
So the first phase, conceive, this is the phase where we collect user problems, we brainstorm solutions,
we're saying "All right, we want to make a product, but we want to figure out what we should make."
We identify the focus areas we want to work on.
The biggest source of ideas for this phase is usually inside of a company from the employees of that company themselves.
Phase number two, plan. In this phase we do market research.
So we've already got our ideas and we do the research on those ideas.
We look at the business case.
Is this something that's going to make us money?
We do customer interviews and see if people
find this to be a problem.
We also roadmap out what we think we could make, how long it might take, and at what point we should
have particular features if we're actually going to do this.
So we move on to the next phase. The third phase is develop, this is where we get our hands dirty.
So we want to make timelines and we want to write out features that we're going to have in this product.
We're going to make our user stories and our specs and we're going to talk to development about estimations
on very specific details of how long will this particular thing need to take to be developed. By the time
we begin developing, the requirements should be set, and they really shouldn't change until
we get some sort of validation on the early parts of the completed product,
our MVP, which we'll talk about a little bit later.
Then we move on to the fourth phase, iterate.
So this is when we finished the MVP, our very early prototype or the early minimum viable product of
this new product we're developing.
We get early feedback from users.
We test the assumptions that we made with the original idea for the product.
We don't wait until we are all the way done because we want to get the testing in as early as possible
from the users.
So we use tools like having an Alpha and a Beta.
You've probably seen these sorts of things out there where you can join Beta programs for software.
This is because these things are not complete and they want to make sure they're heading in the right
direction before they do a full launch.
Again, those first four phases are: conceive, plan, develop, iterate, and we're going to talk about the next three
major phases of the product development process in the next lecture. I will see you there.